vidma(1) -- Virtual Disks Manipulator
=====================================

## SYNOPSIS

`vidma` <INPUT_FILE>  
`vidma` <INPUT_FILE> <NEW_SIZE_IN_MB> [<OUTPUT_FILE>]

## DESCRIPTION

**vidma** is a utility for manipulating virtual disk images. It can show basic
information about the image or resize it. Resizing is done by in-place
modification of a file holding the image or by creating modified copy of such
file.

If you provide only <INPUT_FILE> argument, then `vidma` checks whether this
file is a virtual disk image, i.e. has one of supported [FORMATS][], and shows
information about it.

Giving additionally <NEW_SIZE_IN_MB> value, which should be a positive integer,
you tell `vidma` to perform a _resize_ operation on the <INPUT_FILE>. Unless
you provide <OUTPUT_FILE>, resizing will be performed in-place.
<NEW_SIZE_IN_MB> is the new desired size of virtual disk, using megabyte
(1048576 bytes) as a unit.

By specifying <OUTPUT_FILE> you prevent `vidma` from modifying <INPUT_FILE>.
<OUTPUT_FILE> becomes then an appropriately modified copy of <INPUT_FILE>.

With no arguments, `vidma` displays its version and usage information.

## FORMATS

The `vidma` command expects <INPUT_FILE> to be valid virtual disk image in one
of currently supported formats:

  * _VDI - Virtual Disk Image_  
    Format introduced by VirtualBox and mostly used by VirtualBox. It has a few
    variants, but only two types, fixed and dynamic, are handled by `vidma`.

## BUGS

There is no error handling beside assuring successful file opening.
This means you won't notice a failure if it will happen. Obviously this has to
be fixed in future versions.

To reduce possible damages of in-place operation **ALWAYS BACKUP YOUR IMAGE**
or do not use in-place operations at all by providing <OUTPUT_FILE> every time.

## AUTHOR

Written by Przemyslaw Pawelczyk.

## REPORTING BUGS

If you find any bug, then please create a new issue in the project's
[GitHub page][1] and describe the problem there, unless someone already did it
before you.

  [1]: https://github.com/przemoc/vidma/issues

Remember to provide following information:

* What system do you have?  
  (`uname -a`, `lsb_release -drc`)
* What compiler do you use? (if you have built `vidma` manually)  
  (`cc -v`)
* What `vidma` version are you using?  
  (first line of `vidma` output)
* What have you done?  
  (run `history` and check the commands used to compile and run vidma)
* If problem regards corrupted image, then paste information about the original
  image and the one after failed modification.  
  (`vidma original_image_file`, `vidma modified_image_file`)

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2012 Przemyslaw Pawelczyk <<przemoc@gmail.com>>
